IN A ROW, VIOLENT WEATHER IS
THREATENING THE SOUTHERN UNITED
STATES.
TORNADOES HAVE KILLED AT LEAST
35 PEOPLE SINCE SUNDAY,
INCLUDING A DOZEN OR MORE
YESTERDAY IN MISSISSIPPI.
>> IT'S MOVING TO THE RIGHT!
>> Woodruff: IT WAS LATE MONDAY
AFTERNOON IN MISSISSIPPI, WHEN
THE FUNNEL CLOUDS FORMED.
WEATHER RADAR SHOWED THE
FEROCIOUS STORM SYSTEM CUTTING A
WIDE SWATH ACROSS THE STATE.
>> THIS IS BAD.
>> Woodruff: TORNADOES TOSSED
AND TUMBLED CARS ACROSS AN OPEN
FIELD IN THE TOWN OF LOUISVILLE.
ROBBIE ANDERSON HUDDLED IN HER
CLOSET IN EDWARDS, AS A TWISTER
TORE THROUGH.
>> THAT'S THE TIN ROOF, THE
METAL ROOF THAT HAS COME OFF OF
THE HOUSE AND OF COURSE IT'S
RAININGE AND ALL
OF THIS, BUT THAT'S OKAY TOO
A TORNADO IN TUPELOERE.
UPROOTED MASSIVE, OLD TREES,
PULLED DOWN POWER LINES, AND
KNS ON
THEIR SIDES.
>> TO SEE TREES TWISTED AND
SNAPPED LIKE WHAT THEY ARE NOW,
IT'S NOTHING I'VE EVER SEEN INMR
WANT TO SEE AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: VANELLI'S
IN BUSINESS SINCE 1975, WAS
DESTROYED IN THE STORM.
WORKERS SHELTERED IN THE
RESTAURANT'S WALK-IN COOLER.
A SOUTH CAROLINA MAN VACATIONING
IN TUPELO DESCRIBED HIS CLOSE
CALL.
>> WE WERE ON THE FOURTH FLOOR
OF THE CONFERENCE SUITE HOTEL,
TRYING TO GET OUT, WHEN IT HIT,
E
STAIRWAY AND AT THAT TIME WE
HEARD A SOUND, THE BUILDING
SHOOK, AND MY WIFE REACHED FOR
THE DOOR, THE WINDOW BLEW IN,
THE STAIRWAY DOOR SLAMMED BACK
ON US AND IT BLEW US DOWN THE
HALL.
>> Woodruff: FROM TUPELO, THE
STORM SYSTEM SNAKED ITS WAY
NORTHEAST TO ATHENS, ALABAMA,
WHERE DAZED RESIDENTS SURVEYED
THE DAMAGE TO THEIR COMMUNITY.
MEANWHILE, BACK IN MAYFLOWER AND
VILONIA, ARKANSAS, DEVASTATED BY
SUNDAY'S TORNADOES, PEOPLE HAVE
RETURNED TO WHAT'S LEFT OF THEIR
HOMES, HOPING TO SALVAGE WHAT
THEY CAN.
>> MY GREAT GRANDMA GAVE THIS TO
MY GRANDMA WHEN SHE WAS 12, MY
GRANDMA GAVE IT TO MY MAMA WHEN
SHE WAS 12, MAMA GAVE IT TO ME
WHEN I WAS 12, AND I HAVE MY
FIRST GRANDDAUGHTER, I WAS GOING
TO GIVE IT TO HER AND IT'S NOT
EVEN CRACKED AND IT STILL HAS
THE JEWELRY IN IT.
>> Woodruff: OTHER SMALL SIGNS
OF SURVIVAL EMERGED AS WELL,
INCLUDING A BABY CHICK, FOUND
UNHARMED, IN THE WRECKAGE OF A
HOME.
>> Woodruff: THREE PEOPLE ARE IN
CRITICAL CONDITION THIS EVENING
AFTER A PACKAGE HANDLER OPENED
FIRE AT A FED-EX SORTING CENTER
OUTSIDE ATLANTA.
HE WOUNDED SIX PEOPLE BEFORE
TAKING HIS OWN LIFE.
POLICE SWARMED THE BUILDING
AFTER REPORTS OF GUNFIRE CAME IN
BEFORE SIX THIS MORNING.
THEY SAID THE MAN USED A SHOTGUN
AND HAD EXPLOSIVE DEVICES, BUT
DID NOT USE THEM.
IN SYRIA, MORE THAN 50 PEOPLE
DIED TODAY IN A SERIES OF
ATTACKS.
SCORES MORE WERE WOUNDED.
THE WORST WAS IN THE CENTRAL
CITY OF HOMS, WHERE TWO CAR
BOMBS EXPLODED IN A
PRO-GOVERNMENT NEIGHBORHOOD,
KILLING AT LEAST 40.
AND IN DAMASCUS, STATE T.V.
BROADCAST IMAGES OF A SCHOOL
COMPLEX HIT BY MORTAR STRIKES.
IT CAME A DAY AFTER  PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL-ASSAD ANNOUNCED HIS
RE-ELECTION BID.
IN IRAQ, TWIN BOMBS EXPLODED IN
AN OUTDOOR MARKET 90 MILES
NORTHEAST OF BAGHDAD.
AT LEAST 24 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND MORE THAN 40 INJURED.
MEANWHILE, AN  AL-QAEDA FACTION
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR
MONDAY'S BOMBINGS THAT KILLED
NEARLY 50 PEOPLE.
THE EUROPEAN UNION SLAPPED
SANCTIONS ON 15 MORE TOP RUSSIAN
OFFICIALS TODAY, FOR FOMENTING
TROUBLE IN UKRAINE.
MEANWHILE, IN UKRAINE,
SEPARATISTS STORMED THE REGIONAL
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING IN THE
EASTERN CITY OF LUHANSK.
THEY'RE DEMANDING A REFERENDUM
TO GIVE REGIONS MORE AUTHORITY.
BACK IN KIEV, THE U.S.
AMBASSADOR URGED UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS TO RESPOND CAREFULLY.
>> OUR ADVICE WOULD BE TO
ENCOURAGE THE GOVERNMENT TO
CONTINUE ON THE COURSE THAT IT
HAS BEEN PURSUING, OF SEEKING A
STRATEGY TO CORDON THESE CITIES,
TO USE THEIR SECURITY FORCES,
AND THE ARMY IF NECESSARY, TO
ENSURE THAT WEAPONS, MONEY,
INSTABILITY ARE NOT TRAFFICKED
IN AND OUT OF THESE CITIES.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIA STILL HAS
THOUSANDS OF ITS OWN TROOPS
MASSED NEAR UKRAINE'S EASTERN
BORDER.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT DEFENDED
SECRETARY JOHN KERRY TODAY, OVER
COMMENTS THAT ISRAEL COULD
BECOME AN APARTHEID STATE,
UNLESS THERE'S PEACE WITH THE
PALESTINIANS.
HE SAID IT FRIDAY, WARNING
ISRAEL COULD WIND UP WITH TWO
CLASSES OF CITIZENS.
IN A STATEMENT LAST NIGHT, KERRY
CONCEDED:
IF I COULD REWIND THE TAPE, I
WOULD HAVE CHOSEN A DIFFERENT
WORD.
A SPOKESWOMAN SAID TODAY ANY
SUGGESTION THAT KERRY IS
ANTI-ISRAEL IS "COMPLETELY
ABSURD."
THE SUPREME COURT HAS UPHELD
FEDERAL EFFORTS TO STOP POWER
PLANT EMISSIONS FROM BLOWING
ACROSS STATE LINES.
BY SIX TO TWO TODAY, THE
JUSTICES RE-INSTATED A RULE
ADOPTED IN 2011.
IT REQUIRES PLANTS IN 27
MIDWESTERN AND APPALACHIAN
STATES TO LIMIT POLLUTION THAT
BLOWS DOWNWIND TO OTHER STATES.
A LOWER COURT HAD BLOCKED THE
RULE FROM TAKING EFFECT.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER TRIED
TODAY TO SMOOTH RUFFLED
REPUBLICAN FEATHERS, OVER
IMMIGRATION REFORM.
THE DUST-UP BEGAN LAST WEEK WHEN
BOEHNER ADDRESSED THE
IMMIGRATION ISSUE DURING ANAPPET
IN OHIO.
>> THE APPETITE AMONGST MY
GOOD.GUES FOR DOING THIS IS NOT
THIS GUY'S BACK HERE WITH A
CAMERA BUT HERE'S THE ATTITUDE:
THIS IS TOO HARD. ME DO THIS!
YOU SHOULD HEAR 'EM.
>> Woodruff: THAT DREW FIRE FROM
SOME CONSERVATIVES, WHO SAID THE
BLAME LIES WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA,
NOT WITH REPUBLICANS.
TODAY, BOEHNER TOOK A STEP BACK,
TO EXPLAIN HIMSELF.
>> YOU TEASE THE ONES YOU LOVE,
RIGHT?
BUT SOME PEOPLE MISUNDERSTOOD
WHAT I HAD TO SAY, AND I WANTED
TO MAKE SURE THE MEMBERS
UNDERSTOOD THAT THE BIGGEST
IMPEDIMENT WE HAVE IN MOVING
IMMIGRATION REFORM IS THAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE DON'T TRUST THE
PRESIDENT TO ENFORCE OR
IMPLEMENT THE LAW THAT WE MAY OR
MAY NOT PASS.
>> Woodruff: THE SPEAKER SAID
THE IMMIGRATION SYSTEM IS
"BROKEN," AND REPUBLICANS ARE
STILL DISCUSSING HOW TO FIX IT
A FEDERAL JUDGE STRUCK DOWN
WISCONSIN'S VOTER I.D. LAW
TODAY.
THE JUDGE RULED THE MANDATE TO
SHOW A STATE-ISSUED PHOTO
I.D. IS AN UNFAIR BURDEN ON POOR
AND MINORITY VOTERS.
STATE OFFICIALS SAID THEY PLAN
TO APPEAL.
FOR NOW, THOUGH, THE RULING
COULD SET A PRECEDENT FOR
SIMILAR CHALLENGES IN TEXAS,
NORTH CAROLINA AND OTHER STATES.
THE HEAD OF THE U.S. SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION IS
REJECTING CLAIMS THAT HIGH-SPEED
TRADING GIVES SOME PEOPLE AN
UNFAIR ADVANTAGE.
MARY JO WHITE TOLD A
CONGRESSIONAL HEARING TODAY:
"THE MARKETS ARE NOT RIGGED"
DESPITE ALLEGATIONS IN A NEW
BOOK.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
86 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,535.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 29 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,103.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED NEARLY
NINE, TO FINISH AT 1,878.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
RACIST COMMENTS GET A PRO
BASKETBALL OWNER BANNED FROM THE
GAME FOR LIFE;
A NEW PUSH TO CURB SEXUAL
ASSAULTS ON COLLECA
IRAQ STRUGGLES WITH VIOLENCE
AHEAD OF CRITICAL ELECTIONS;
THE SUPREME COURT WEIGHS WHETHER
POLICE CAN SEARCH CELL PHONES
WITHOUT A WARRANT;
AND ONE WOMAN'S FIGHT TO
PRESERVE EGYPT'S ANTIQUES.
>> Ifill: THE NATIONAL
BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION TOOK IT'S
TOUGHEST STEPS EVER AGAINST A
TEAM OWNER TODAY, COMING DOWN
HARD ON DONALD STERLING, THE
BILLIONAIRE OWNER OF THE LOS
ANGELES CLIPPERS.
COMMISSIONER ADAM SILVER
CONFIRMED DURING A PRESS
CONFERENCE IN NEW YORK THAT
STERLING'S WAS THE VOICE ON A
WIDELY CIRCULATED RECORDING THAT
CONTAINED RACIST REMARKS.
NBA PLAYERS IMMEDIATELY PRAISED
THE DECISION ON SOCIAL MEDIA,
AND AT LOS ANGELES NEWS
CONFERENCE, WHERE FORMER PLAYER
AND CURRENT SACRAMENTO  MAYOR
KEVIN JOHNSON SPOKE.
HERE IS SOME OF WHAT THEY HAD TO
SAY.
>> EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, I AM
BANNING MR. STERLING FOR LIFE
FROM ANY ASSOCIATION WITH THE
CLIPPERS ORGANIZATION OR THE
NBA.
MR. STERLING MAY NOT ATTEND ANY
NBA GAMES OR PRACTICES, HE MAY
NOT BE PRESENT AT ANY CLIPPERS
FACILITY, AND HE MAY NOT
PARTICIPATE IN ANY BUSINESS OR
PLAYER PERSONNEL DECISIONS
INVOLVING P TEAM.
I AM ALSO FINDING
MR. STERLING -- FINING
MR. STERLING $2.5 MILLION, THE
MAXIMUM AMOUNT ALLOWED UNDER THE
NBA CONSTITUTION.
>> IF YOU DON'T GET THE
THREE-QUARTER VOTE THAT YOU
NEED, IS IT POSSIBLE THAT DONALD
STERLING COULD STILL BE AN
ABSENTEE OWNER OF THIS TEAM EVEN
THOUGH HE'S BANNED PHYSICALLY
FROM DOING ANYTHING WITH IT?
>> I FULLY EXPECT TO GET THE
SUPPORT I NEED FROM THE OTHER
NBA OWNERS TO REMOVE HIM.
>> I BELIEVE THAT TODAY STANDS
AS ONE OF THOSE GREAT MOMENTS
WHERE SPORTS, ONCE AGAIN,
TRANSCENDS, WHERE SPORTS
PROVIDES A PLACE FOR FUNDAMENTAL
CHANGE ON HOW OUR COUNTRY SHOULD
THINK AND ACT.
>> Ifill: FOR MORE REACTION NOW
TO THE DAY'S EVENTS, AND WHAT
COMES NEXT, I'M JOINED BY
WILLIAM RHODEN, A SPORTS
COLUMNIST FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES.
AND CHARLIE PIERCE, A STAFF
WRITER FOR GRANTLAND, A SPORTS
WEBSITE, WHO ALSO WRITES
REGULARLY FOR ESQUIRE MAGAZINE.
WILLIAM RHODEN, DID ADAM SILVER
DO THE RIGHT THING?
>> HE DID WHAT HE COULD DO.
IT WAS A VERY GOOD STEP.
BUT ANYTHING LEFT IN THAT,
ANYTHING WEAKER IN THAT, I THINK
HE WOULD HAVE HAD A MORAL TRAIN
WRECK ON HIS HANDS, MORE OF A
MORAL TRAIN WRECK THAN HE
ALREADY DID.
SO I THINK ADAM WAS STRONG, BUT,
AGAIN, HE DID WHAT HE HAD TO DO.
HE HAD TO DO THIS.
>> Woodruff: HOW ABOUT THAT,
CHARLIE PIERCE, WAS HE IN A
POSITION TO DO ANYTHING OTHER
THAN WHAT HE DID TODAY?
>> I AGREED WITH BILL.
I THINK HE DID ALL HE COULD DO
FOR THE MOMENT.
I THINK THE PLAYERS AND PEOPLE
INTERESTED IN THIS ISSUE ARE
PERFECTLY WITHIN THEIR RIGHTS TO
ASK FOR A TIMETABLE ON THE SALE
OF THE CLUB BECAUSE I THINK YOU
CAN JUDGE FROM THE ANSWER HE
GAVE TO THE QUESTION, IF HE
DOESN'T GET THE VOTES OF THE
REST OF THE OWNERS, THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO BE ABLE TO MAKE THE GUY
DIVEST HIMSELF OF THE TEAM.
SO I THINK THAT, AS BILL SAID,
HE DID WHAT HE HAD TO DO, HE DID
ALL HE COULD DO TODAY.
NOW WE'LL SEE WHAT'S GOING ON
DOWN THE LINE.
>> Woodruff: WILLIAM RHODEN,
WE KNOW HE WILL BE FINED
$2.5 MILLION, BANNED FROM GAMES,
MEETINGS, BUT IN FORCING TO SELL
THE TEAM, ISN'T HE GOING TO REAP
A HUGE PROFIT?
>> GWEN, HE WINS.
HE WINS.
WHAT I HOPE HAPPENS, THOUGH, IS
FROM HERE, YOU KNOW, I WAS AT
THE PRESS CONFERENCE AND THERE
IS SORT OF A SENSE THAT, OKAY,
WE TOOK THIS GUY, FLOGGED HIM
AND THE WICKED WITCH OF RACISM
IS DEAD.
THIS IS FAR MORE PERVASIVE THAN
THIS.
THIS IS MORE THAN ABOUT DONALD
STERLING, IT'S ABOUT
INSTITUTIONAL RACISM THROUGHOUT
THE NBA AND NFL.
WHEN YOU GO THROUGH AN NBA OR
NFL FRANCHISE, I'VE INVITED THE
PLAYERS TO DO THAT, THEY WOULD
BE STUNNED WHEN THEY GO TO VISIT
ALL PARTS OF THE DEPARTMENT --
MARKETING, LEGAL, THE EXECUTIVE
SUITE -- AND FIND OUT HOW FEW
BLACK PEOPLE THERE ARE.
SO, YES, DONALD STERLING
ARTICULATED SOMETHING HE DIDN'T
WANT BLACK PEOPLE AROUND, BUT
PEOPLE CAN MAKE THAT SAME
STATEMENT WITHOUT BEING CLUMSY
LIKE HE WAS AND MAKE A STATEMENT
IN TERMS OF WHO THEY DON'T HIRE,
WHO THEY DON'T HAVE AROUND.
SO I DON'T WANT THIS -- THE
PROBLEM WITH THIS IS THAT, YOU
KNOW, IT'S OVER -- YOU KNOW HOW
WE DO WITH RACE, WE MAKE A BIG
DEAL OUT OF IT AND NOW WE GO TO
THE PLAYOFFS AND THE
CHAMPIONSHIP AND THANK GOD WE
DON'T HAVE TO REALLY TAKE A
STAND.
SO I JUST WANT THIS TO BE THE
BEGINNING, NOT THE END.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK CHARLIE
PIERCE ABOUT THAT.
IS THIS SOMETHING YOU SENSE WILL
GO ON BEYOND WHAT IT IS NOW?
BECAUSE YOU'VE WRITTEN, THIS IS
NOT THE FIRST TIME, FOR
INSTANCE, WE'VE HEARD OF DONALD
STERLING MAKING COMMENTS LIKE
THIS AND NOTHING HAPPENED
BEFORE.
>> NO, DONALD STERLING HAS BEEN
A CANCER ON THIS LEAGUE NEARLY
FROM A COMPETITIVE STANDPOINT
SINCE HE OWNED THE TEAM.
HE HAS ACTED OUT HIS RACISM
BEFORE IN HIS PRIVATE BUSINESS
WHICH IS BASICALLY BEING A
LANDLORD -- AND THAT'S BEING
VERY KIND.
OTHERWISE, I THINK WHAT BILL IS
TALKING ABOUT, IF IT'S GOING TO
GO FORWARD, THEN THIS CAN'T BE
THE ONLY TIME THE PLAYERS GET
TOGETHER AND DECIDE TO TAKE A
STAND ON THIS, OKAY.
THE PLAYERS ARE GOING TO HAVE AN
ADVANTAGE NOW, THEY HAVE TO PUSH
IT.
FOR EXAMPLE, THEY HAVE TO
ON THE LEAGUE TO MAKE THIS SALE
HAPPEN AND NOT TO -- IT IS
UNFATHOMABLE TO ME DONALD
STERLING MIGHT STILL OWN THE
TEAM NEXT FALL.
THAT CAN'T BE ALLOWED.
IF WHAT ADAM SAYS IS SERIOUS,
THAT CAN'T BE ALLOWED TO HAPPEN.
ON ANOTHER VENTURE, WHAT DOES
ADAM SILVER DO NOW WITH THE
DEBOSE FAMILY IN ORLANDO, DOES
HE TALK TO THEM?
THIS IS AN ENTIRELY NEW WORLD.
LET'S STEP ALL THE WAY INTO IT
IF WE STEP INTO IT.
>> Ifill: WHY IS IT THE
PLAYERS TO FORCE THE ACTION
RATHER THAN THE OTHER OWNERS,
WHICH IS THE IMMEDIATE QUESTION?
>> WELL, I THINK IT IS.
I THINK IT'S ON THE OTHER OWNERS
AND I ALSO THINK IT'S ON THE
CONSUMERS, ON FANS.
THE FANS, YOU KNOW, THEY WEREN'T
REALLY IN THE CROSSHAIRS.
I THINK THAT THEY HAVE GOT SOME
MORAL DECISIONS TO MAKE, TOO, IN
TERMS OF EMBRACING THIS.
I THINK PEOPLE ALWAYS FOCUS ON
PLAYERS BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
THEY'RE HIGHLY COMPENSATED,
HIGHLY VISIBLE IN TERMS OF A
LEAGUE THAT'S 75%
AFRICAN-AMERICAN, THEY'RE
PROBABLY THE MOST HIGHLY VISIBLE
SET OF AFRICAN-AMERICANS OUTSIDE
THE PRISON INDUSTRY THAT WE HAVE
IN THIS COUNTRY.
LET ME JUST SAY THIS, THIS IS
ABOUT SELF-RESPECT, AND IF THOSE
PLAYERS IN THE NBA, AND
PARTICULARLY THE CLIPPERS, IF
THEY CONTINUE TO USE THE "N"
WORD AND WE KNOW THAT'S FLYING
AROUND THE LOCKER ROOM, MAYBE
THIS WILL BE AN IMPETUS TO STOP
IT.
YOU CAN'T HAVE IT BOTH WAYS.
YOU CAN'T ACCUSE DONALD STERLING
OF USING "RACIAL LANGUAGE" WHEN
IN THE LOCKER ROOM, THEY'RE
DISRESPECTING EACH OTHER ALL THE
TIME.
SO HOPEFULLY THIS WILL BE,
IRONICALLY ENOUGH, WHAT STERLING
SAID WILL BE AN IMPETUS FOR
PLAYERS TO START RESPECTING
THEMSELVES IN TERMS OF THE
LANGUAGE THEY USE WITH EACH
OTHER.
SO A LOT OF THE WEIGHT HAS TO
FALL ON THE PLAYERS, GWEN.
>> Ifill: CHARLIE, IS BILL
BEING OPTIMISTIC THAT THIS IS AN
OPENING FOR A LARGER
CONVERSATION THAT WILL CHANGE
THE WAY THE NBA FUNCTIONS,
CHANGE THE WAY PLAYERS RELATE TO
EACH OTHER, CHANGE THE WAY WE
ALL TALK ABOUT RACE?
>> I HOPE SO.
IF I HAD A NICKEL FOR, YOU KNOW,
EVERY TIME AN EVENT HAPPENED
WHERE WE WERE GOING TO HAVE A
NEW CONVERSATION IN THIS COUNTRY
ABOUT RACE, I WOULD BE RICHER
THAN DONALD STERLING IS.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO YOU SEE AS
THE IMMEDIATE FALLOUT.
>> WHEN I MENTIONED THE PLAYERS,
WHAT I MENTIONED ABOUT THE
PLAYERS WAS, IT SEEMS THAT THEIR
UNITY IN THIS PARTICULAR
INSTANCE WAS THE TIPPING POINT
THAT FORCED THE NBA'S HANDS.
THERE WAS SERIOUS TALK ABOUT NOT
PLAYING DURING THE PLAYOFFS.
THIS IS THE THING I'M INSISTING
CANNOT BE A ONE-TIME THING.
>> RIGHT.
IF THEY'RE GOING TO TAKE THAT
KIND OF ROLE AS A LEGITIMATE
UNIFIED FORCE WITHIN THE LEAGUE,
THEY HAVE TO TAKE IT ON EVERY
ISSUE.
>> Ifill: HOW ABOUT DOLLAR
SIGNS?
ARE WE TALKING ALL THE COMPANIES
WHO THREATENED TO PULL THEIR
SUPPORT FOR THE CLIPPERS, WAS
THAT THE SORT OF THING WHICH IS
ALSO A TIPPING POINT?
>> THAT MAY HAVE BEEN THE
CATALYST, GWEN.
THERE ARE COMPANIES THAT WOULD
HAVE PULLED OUT AND IF YOU THINK
THE NBA ISN'T BACK THERE
COUNTING NICKELS, YOU HAVE
ANOTHER THING.
WE'VE GOT TO STOP.
THIS GETTING BACK TO CHARL
POINT, I THINK THE PLAYERS,
THOSE WHO HAVE INSIGHT, ARE
SAYING, WOW, WE REALLY HAVE SOME
ECONOMIC MUSCLE!
LOOK WHAT WE, JUST BY
THREATENING NOT TO PLAY, JUST BY
THREATENING TO BOYCOTT, JUST TO
SORT OF RAISE OUR VOICES,
THESE COMPANIES PULLED BACK AND
NOW THEY'RE ALL COMING BACK AND
ANY REASONABLE GROUP OF PEOPLE
WOULD THINK, WOW, WE REALLY HAVE
SOME MUSCLE, LET'S MAKE THIS
PLAYERS ASSOCIATION A REALLY
STRONG AND POWERFUL FORCE.
I JUST HOPE THAT CHRIS PAUL'S
LEADERSHIP IS STRONG, I HOPE
KEVIN JOHNSON'S IS STRONG.
I THINK THIS COULD BE A CATALYST
FOR SOMETHING VERY STRONG.
AT LEAST I'M HOPING.
>> Ifill: WE'LL ALL BE
WATCHING TO SEE.
WILLIAM RHODEN "NEW YORK TIMES,"
CHARLIE CHARLIE "ESQUIRE
MAGAZINE."
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: COLLEGE CAMPUSES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE
INCREASINGLY IN THE SPOTLIGHT
FOR  SEXUAL ASSAULTS ON
STUDENTS, AND HOW MANY SCHOOLS
HAVE CHOSEN TO PURSUE CHARGES.
WAYS TO COMBAT THE PROBLEM ARE
BEING PUSHED ON MULTIPLE FRONTS.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION STEPPED
UP IT'S PRESSURE TODAY.
>> COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
CAN NO MORE TURNING A BLIND EYE
OR PRETENDING IT DOESN'T EXIST.
>> Woodruff: TODAY'S WHITE HOUSE
EVENT, FEATURING VICE PRESNT
JOE BIDEN, CAME AMID A GROWING
CAMPAIGN TO FOCUS ATTENTION ON
SEXUAL ASSAULTS AT AMERICAN
COLLEGES.
>> WE NEED TO PROVIDE SURVIVORS
WITH MORE SUPPORT AND WE NEED TO
BRING THE PERPETRATORS TO
JUSTICE.
AND WE NTH
UNIVERSITIES TO STEP UP AND
LEARN THE LESSONS WHICH WE HAVE
LEARNED IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
ON THE CRIMINAL SIDE.
>> Woodruff: A WHITE HOUSE TASK
FORCE WITH ITS OWN WEBSITE,
notalone.gov RECOMMENDED THAT:
IT'S STILL UP TO COLLEGES
THEMSELVES TO MAKE CHANGES, BUT
THEY'RE UNDER MOUNTING PRESSURE.
IN 2007, THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE
OF JUSTICE FOUND ONE IN FIVE
COLLEGIATE WOMEN FALLS VICTIM TO
SEXUAL ASSAULT.
IN RECENT MONTHS, CASES HAVE
BEEN SPRINGING UP EVERYWHERE,
FROM IVY LEAGUE SCHOOLS, TO
SMALLER, LIBERAL ARTS
INSTITUTIONS, AND LARGE STATE
UNIVERSITIES.
DEMOCRATIC U.S. SENATORS KIRSTEN
GILLIBRAND AND CLAIRE MCCASKILL
WANT TO SET ASIDE MORE FEDERAL
MONEY TO ENFORCE SEXUAL ASSAULT
LAWS.
MCCASKILL APPEARED SUNDAY ON
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, WOMEN
ARE INCREASINGLY FILING CASES
UNDER THE FEDERAL TITLE NINE LAW
THAT REQUIRES SCHOOLS TO PREVENT
ASSAULTS AND PROTECT VICTIMS.
MORE THAN 50 CAMPUSES HAVE ON-
GOING INVESTIGATIONS INTO
WHETHER THEY ARE COMPLYING.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE JOINED NOW BY
THREE PEOPLE AT TODAY'S EVENT
WHO HAVE ALL TAKEN LEADING ROLES
IN DEALING WITH THIS PROBLEM.
CAROLYN "BIDDY" MARTIN IS THE
PRESIDENT OF AMHERST COLLEGE.
THE SCHOOL CAME UNDER SCRUTINY
WHEN STUDENTS FILED FEDERAL
COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE CAMPUS'
HANDLING OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
REPORTS.
ALISON KISS IS EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE CLERY CENTER FOR
SECURITY ON CAMPUS, WHICH WORKS
DIRECTLY WITH SCHOOLS.
AND ANDREA PINO IS A STUDENT AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
AT CHAPEL HILL.
SHE IS AN ASSAULT SURVIVOR
HERSELF AND CO-FOUNDER OF THEGR"
WHICH HELPS STUDENTS FILE
FEDERAL COMPLAINTS WHEN THEY
FEEL THEIR CASE HAS BEEN
MISHANDLED.
THANK YOU ALL FOR BEING WITH US.
PRESIDENT MARTIN, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
DOES THIS MEAN THAT THE BURDEN,
MORE THAN EVER NOW, IS ON
COLLEGES AND COLLEGE OFFICIALS
TO PREVENT THESE ASSAULTS AND
THEN DEAL WITH THEM IF THAT
HAPPENED?
>> I THINK IT DOES.
I THINK COLLEGES NEED TO BE
ACCOUNTABLE, ARE BEGINNING TO
HOLD THEMSELVES ACCOUNTABLE, AND
WHAT WE GOT TODAY WAS A SET OF
GUIDELINES, A COMPREHENSIVE
DESCRIPTION OF THE NATURE AND
THE SCOPE OF THE PROBLEM.
SEEING WHAT TITLE 9 REQUIRES AND
A SET OF GUIDELINES ABOUT HOW
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES NEED
TO IMPLEMENT THE CRIMES.
>> Woodruff: ALISON KISS, HOW
DIFFERENT WILL THIS BE FROM THE
WAY THINGS HAVE BEEN HANDLED UP
TILL NOW?
>> TODAY REALLY CONTINUED THE
CONVERSATION AND WE NEED TO TALK
ABOUT THIS ON CAMPUSES.
THE CONVERSATION HAS STARTED
THIS YEAR.
THERE HAS BEEN A GROUP OF
STUDENTS THAT HAVE BEEN
INSTRUMENTAL IN BEGINNING THAT
CONVERSATION, AND WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT THIS, MORE STUDENTS WILL
COME FORWARD AND REPORT, AND
THAT NEEDS TO BE WHAT CAMPUSES
RECOGNIZE IS IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT THIS AND PUTTING RESOURCES
OUT THERE, STUDENTS WILL COME
FORWARD AND THEY'RE GOING TO
WANT HELP AND SEEK HELP AND
THEY'RE GOING TO REPORT.
>> Woodruff: ANDREA PINO, AS
SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN
REPORTING AND ADVOCATING FOR
STUDENTS, HOW MUCH DIFFERENCE DO
YOU THINK THE GUIDELINES WILL
MAKE?
>> IN THE LAST FEW YEARS HAVE
BEEN THE YEARS JANE DOE HAD A
NAME AND IT'S BEEN MONUMENTAL AS
TO HOW MANY PEOPLE WE KNOW DEAL
WITH THIS ISSUE AND I THINK THE
GUIDELINE PUTS JURISDICTION
AROUND WHAT SEXUAL ASSAULT IS
BECAUSE A LOT OF TIMES IT WAS
MISUNDERSTOOD SEXUAL ASSAULT IS
CLEAR AND CONCISE.
WHEN THERE'S A NO AND WHEN THERE
IS NOT A YES, SEXUAL ASSAULT IS
SEXUAL ASSAULT.
LIKE VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN
SAID TODAY, WHEN THERE ISN'T
CONSENT, IT IS SEXUAL ASSAULT.
>> Woodruff: HOW DIFFERENT IS
IT FROM BEFORE?
>> IT WAS VERY VAGUE IN TERMS OF
WHAT THE ISSUE WAS.
IT WAS MORE ON LINE THAT SEXUAL
ASSAULT WAS A VIOLATION OF TITLE
9, BUT THE JURISDICTION WAS
ABOUT THE FEDERAL POLICY.
AND IT'S ABOUT THE CLEARY ACT
AND TITLE 9 HOW THEY WORK
TOGETHER.
WHEN SEXUAL ASSAULT HAPPENS ON
COLLEGE CAMPUSESHE
DON'T HAVE AN EQUAL RIGHT TO
EDUCATION.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE ENFORCING NOW.
>> Woodruff: HAVE COLLEGES
BEEN RELUCTANT TO GRAPPLE WITH
THE PROBLEM?
>> IT'S A  Q
DON'T HAVE A GREAT ANSWER TO IT.
I THINK WHAT I WOULD SAY GOING
BACK TO ANDREA'S POINT IS THE
PAST TWO YEARS HAVE SEEN THE
STUDENTS BECOME THE TEACHERS OF
COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES.
I THINK WHAT WE HAVE TODAY IS
GOING TO BE ENORMOUSLY HELPFUL,
BUT THE CREDIT FOR MAKINGTH
THE ISSUE THAT IT HAS BECOME AND
FOR HOLDING COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES ACCOUNTABLE, THAT
CREDIT GOES TO YOUNG PEOPLE SUCH
AS ANDREA PINO.
THAT IS WHY I THINK COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES HAVE BEGUN TO TAKE
NOTICE AND HAVE STARTED PUTTING
THE RESOURCES THAT ARE REQUIRED
INTO PREVENTION AND INTO
ADDRESSING PROBLEMS WHEN THEY
OCCUR.
>> Woodruff: ALISON KISS, PICK
UP ON THAT BECAUSE YOU WORK WITH
DIFFERENT SCHOOLS.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS HOLDING
SCHOOLS BACK IN THEIR BEING
AGGRESSIVE ABOUT DEALING WITH
THIS PROBLEM?
>> I THINK INSTITUTIONS OF
HIGHER EDUCATION, MUCH LIKE
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS, OFTEN
OPERATE IN SILENCE AND ONE HAND
IS NOT TALKING TO ANOTHER AND
THERE'S NOT COLLABORATION AND
ONE THING THAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN
ARE MORE CONVERSATIONS LIKE THIS
WHERE YOU HAVE STUDENTS SITTING
AT THE TABLE WITH COLLEGE
PRESIDENTS, WITH ADVOCATES
TALKING ABOUT THE ISSUE BECAUSE
YOU OFTEN HAVE PEOPLE WHO CARE
ABOUT THE ISSUE BUT COMING AT IT
FROM SO MANY DIFFERENT
DIRECTIONS, SO COMING AT IT IF
YOU HAVE BEEN A SURVIVOR IS
DIFFERENT THAN IF YOU'RE THE
INSTITUTION'S LEADER.
SO BRINGING ALL THESE PEOPLE TO
THE TABLE AND SHARING DIFFERENT
VIEWPOINTS AND SOLUTIONS, SO
HAVING A SOLUTIONS-BASED
APPROACH TO HOW WE MAKE THIS
CAMPUS, HOW WE MAKE THE COLLEGE
CAMPUS ENVIRONMENT IN GENERAL
BETTER FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS.
>> Woodruff: ANDREA PINO, IS
IT THE PROBLEM IS MUCH WORSE
THAN IT USED TO BE OR IT'S
GETTING MORE REPORTED THAN IT
USED TO BE?
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> I THINK IT'S VERY
UNDERREPORTED.
THE FACT THAT WE HAVE ONE IN
FIVE, THAT'S GROSSLY
UNDERESTIMATED.
>> Woodruff: YOU THINK IT'S
MORE THAN THAT?
>> DEFINITELY MUCH MORE THAN
THAT.
WE ESTIMATE IT'S JUST SO MUCH
MORE AND I THINK JUST MY COLLEGE
EXPERIENCE, MOST OF MY FRIENDS
HAVE BEEN IMPACTED AT SOME
POINT.
I THINK AT U.N.C., IT'S NOT THAT
THERE IS REALLY A DEFENDER FROM
GOING SOMETHING, IT'S FOR A LONG
TIME THERE WASN'T A FACE TO THE
ISSUE.
POLICIES WERE WRITTEN WITHOUT US
IN MIND.
THEY WERE RESPONDING TO FEDERAL
GUIDELINES, LIKE AMHERST, BUT
THERE WASN'T A FACE SHOWING TO
YOU WHAT THE IMPACT TO HAVE THE
PROBLEM IS.
OFTENTIMES IT'S NOT JUST ONE
INCIDENT BUT THE ENTIRE
EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCE IS
IMPACTED BY THE ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT MARTIN.
AMHERST HAD ITS OWN INCIDENT.
HOW IS IT NOW GOING TO BE
DIFFERENT FOR YOU AS THE
PRESIDENT OF AMHERST OR FOR THE
LEADER OF ANY SCHOOL TO ADDRESS
THIS?
WHAT'S GOING TO CHANGE?
>> WELL, AS I SAID, IT STARTED
TO BE DIFFERENT A COUPLE OF
YEARS AGO, AND I THINK ANDREA IS
RIGHT TO SAY, WHEN STUDENTS
BEGIN TO GIVE A FACE TO THE
PROBLEM.
IN 2012, WE COMPLETELY REVAMPED
OUR POLICIES, PROCEDURES, OUR
PROTOCOLS AND CHANGED THE WAY
THE CASES ARE ADJUDICATED.
WE NO LONGER HAVE FACULTY AND
STUDENTS, FOR EXAMPLE, SITTING
ON DISCIPLINARY BOARDS.
>> Woodruff: WHY IN THE?
ELL, OUR STUDENTS POINTED
OUT -- AND, BY THE WAY, I REALLY
THINK WHAT WE'VE LEARNED, AT
LEAST AT AMHERST, WE'VE LEARNED
BY VIRTUE OF CLOSE INTERACTION
AND COLLABORATION WITH STUDENTS
AND STAFF.
BUT STUDENTS POINTED OUT,
ESPECIALLY IN A SMALL
INSTITUTION, THEY DIDN'T WANT
PEOPLE ON HEARING BOARDS,
WHETHER THEY WERE THE
COMPLAINANT OR THE RESPONDENT,
WITH WHOM THEY COULD POTENTIALLY
BE FRIENDS OR A FACULTY MEMBER
WHOSE CLASS THEY MIGHT TAKE IN
THE FUTURE WOULD HAVE HEARD THE
INTIMATE DETAILS OF THEIR LIVES
AND WANTED PEOPLE WITH EXPERTISE
AND TRAINING.
IT'S ABOUT PROFESSIONALIZING
PEOPLE AND PRACTICES WE USE IN
DEMANDING EXCELLENCE FROM
EVERYONE INVOLVED AND THAT
PROFESSIONALIZATION IS CRITICAL.
>> Woodruff: WHAT NEEDS TO BE
DONE, ALISON AND ANDREA, WHAT
ELSE HAS TO HAPPEN NOW?
>> ON CAMPUSES, POLICIES ARE
NEEDED TO BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH
FEDERAL LAWS BUT THEY HAVE TO
MAKE SENSE TO STUDENTS.
SO THERE HAS TO BE A CONCERTED
EFFORT TO GET OUT IN FRONT AND
TALK ABOUT THIS.
FROM PREVENTION STANDPOINT, THE
PUBLIC HEALTH MODEL WORKS.
THERE'S EVIDENCE BEHIND THE
MODEL.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT CHANGING
BEHAVIORS AND HOW TO DO THAT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S AN
EXAMPLE?
>> AN EXAMPLE IS FROM THE CD.
WE'VE SEEN A THREE-TIERED
APPROACH.
>> Woodruff: CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL.
>> YES.
AND THIS APPROACH LOOKS AT A
COMMUNITY-BASED APPROACH.
SO CHANGING BEHAVIORS WITHIN THE
COMMUNITY.
QUITE HONESTLY, IT'S NOT ALL ON
HIGHER EDUCATION.
IT NEEDS TO START EARLY.
WE NEED TO TALK TO CHILDREN WHEN
THEY'RE YOUNG.
I'M TALKING TO MY 7-YEAR-OLD
ABOUT THIS ISSUE NOW AND YOU
NEED TO START AT AN
AGE-APPROPRIATE LEVEL AND
CONTINUE THE CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: IT'S ALSO MEN ON
CAMPUS WHO COULD BE THE VICTIM.
>> EVERY INSTITUTION HAS ITS OWN
DIFFICULTIES.
WHAT I'VE EXPERIENCED FROM WHAT
I'M RECOVERING FROM IS THE
AMAZING SUPPORT FROM SPECIFIC
FACULTY THAT WERE ABLE TO
ACCOMMODATE ME.
I HAD TO FIND IT ON MY OWN.
I WASN'T OFFERED PTSD RESOURCES,
I WAS NEVER OFFERED HOUSING
ACCOMMODATIONS OR EXTENSIONS.
I HAD TO FIGHT FOR THAT.
STUDENTS WITH PSTD ARE ENTITLED
TO DISABILITY SERVICES UNDER
TITLE 2.
>> Woodruff: WILL THOSE
SERVICES BE MORE AVAILABLE NOW?
>> THAT'S THE THING, IF YOU
FOLLOW BASIC COMPLIANCE, YOU
MISS THE GAPS OF MENTAL SERVICES
AND MENTAL HEALTH.
IT'S ONE THERAPIST FOR 1800
STUDENTS AND OFTENTIMES STUDENTS
ARE SHOE HORNED INTO THAT AND
DON'T GET THE HELP THEY NEED.
>> Woodruff: SOUNDS AS IF
YOU'RE SAYING SOME OF THIS IS
CHANGING.
>> IT'S DEFINITELY CHANGING.
IT'S CHANGING SIGNIFICANTLY.
THE PROTEST MUST BE
COMPREHENSIVE AND CAN'T BE
FOCUSED JUST ON HOW TO COMP
WITH LAWS.
IT'S HOW TO SOLVE THELEM OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT AND RAPE, NOT
ONLY ON CAMPUSES BUT IN SOCIETY
AS A WHOLE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT MARTIN
OF AMHERST, ALISON KISS, ANDREA
PINO, WE THANK YOU ALL.
>> Ifill: IN IRAQ, VOTERS GO TO
THE POLLS TOMORROW IN THE FIRST
NATIONAL ELECTIONS SINCE
AMERICAN FORCES LEFT.
THE GOVERNMENT FACES A
RESURGENCE OF AL-QAEDA LINKED
GROUPS, AND THERE ARE FEARS
SECURITY FORCES HAVE LOST
CONTROL OF A KEY PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
AS SECTARIAN VIOLENCE
INTENSIFIES, SOME BELIEVE THAT
IRAQ, WHERE THOUSANDS OF
AMERICAN LIVES WERE LOST AND
BILLIONS OF TAXPAYER DOLLARS
SPENT, IS SLIPPING BACK TO THE
BRINK OF CIVIL WAR.
JOURNALIST JANE ARRAF FILED THIS
REPORT FOR THE NEWSHOUR FROM
BAGHDAD.
>> THIS WAS AN ELECTION RALLY
FOR THE LEAGUE OF THE RIGHTEOUS
AND ITS POLITICAL RING THE
TRUTHFUL THEIR LEADER BELIEVED
BY THE U.S. TO HAVE ORGANIZED
THE KILLING OF U.S. SOLDIERS,
NOW IRAQ'S NEWEST POLITICAL
PLAYER.
THE MILITANT'S LATE ST FIGHT
SPILLED OVER WHERE SOME YOUNG
MEMBERS WERE KILLED FIGHTING
ALONGSIDE SYRIAN REGIME FORCES.
THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND
SYRIA, WHEN THE TRUTHFUL ARE THE
CURE.
MOMENTS AFTER THOSE WORDS LEFT
HIS MOUTH THIS ATTACK HAPPENED.
THE CAR BOMB IN THE PARKING LOT
OF A FOLLOWED BY ANOTHER
CAR BOMB AND A SUICIDE BOMBER.
THE AL QUAIDA OFFSHOOT, HE
MENTIONED, THE ISLAMIC STATE OF
IRAQ AND SYRIA TOOK
RESPONSIBILITY.
THIS ISN'T THE IRAQ THE UNITED
STATES EXPECTED TO LEAVE BEHIND.
IT'S NOT EVEN AN IRAQ A LOT OF
IRAQIS RECOGNIZE.
IN ELECTION AFTER ELECTION, IN
ALMOST A DECADE SINCE PEOPLE
HERE FIRST WENT TO THE POLLS,
THE COUNTRY HAS BECOME MORE AND
NOT LESS DIVIDED.
AND MANY FEAR IT WILL BECOME
MORE DANGEROUS.
HERE IN AL-ANBAR, IRAQ'S BIGGEST
PROVINCE BORDERING SYRIA AND
JORDAN, FEW PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE
TO GO TO THE POLLS.
IN FALLUJAH, ANTI-GOVERMENT
FIGHTERS ARE IN THE STREET.
THEY SAY THIS IS THE WAR ON
TERRORISM.
IT SURROUNDED FALLUJAH TO DRIVE
OUT WHAT IT SAYS IS THE ISLAMIC
STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA FORMER
OFFSHOOT OF AL QUAIDA IN IRAQ,
IT HAS BEEN USING U.S. WEAPONS
AND AMMUNITION TO LAUNCH STRIKES
ON THE EDGE OF THE CITIES.
BUT IT ISN'T THAT SIMPLE.
MANY IRAQIS IN THE SUNNI
MAJORITY PROVINCE SAY THESE
AREN'T TERRORISTS, THEY'RE
REBELS FIGHTING AGAINST WHAT
THEY BELIEVE IS AN IRANIAN
CONTROLLED IRAQI GOVERNMENT.
THE THE CONFLICT REFLECTS A
BIGGER POLITICAL SPLIT IN IRAQ
AND THE REGION.
THIS IS A SENIOR PROGRAM OFFICER
FOR THE MIDDLE EAST WITH THE
U.S. INSTITUTE OF PEACE.
>> THE ISSUE IS ENTANGLED THE
SECTARIANISM, THE DIVISION, IS
ENTANGLED WITH COMPETITION,
COMPETING INTEREST AND
PRIORITIES COMPETING FOR
REGIONAL POWERS.
IN THE GULF STATES YOU HAVE
TURKEY, IRAN.
THEY HAVE DIFFERENT INTERESTS
THAN IRAQ AND BACKING DIFFERENT
POLITICAL ACTORS THERE.
SO THAT HAS NOT HELPED IRAQIS TO
COME TOGETHER AND BRIDGE THE
SUNNI AND SHIITE DIVIDE.
SO THE FIRST THING THAT NEEDS TO
HAPPEN IS TO AGREE ON WHAT IS
THE PROBLEM AND THIS IS WHERE
YOU CAN START A CONVERSATION.
THE FUTURE OF IRAQ RESTS VERY
MUCH ON THAT CONVERSATION.
>> Reporter: PREOCCUPIED WITH
WINNING, FEW IRAQI LEADERS SEEM.
THIS WAS THE INTERIM PRIME
MINISTER IN 2004.
ALLAWY AND HIS PARTY WAS THE
MAIN STREAM SUNNI IRAQIS.
HIS PARTY IN 2010 WON MORE SEATS
BUT JOINED MALIKI'S GOVERNMENT.
HE SAID HE'S HAD ENOUGH.
HE SAID HE WON'T ACCEPT M MALIKI
EVEN IF HE WINS.
THERE IS NO
DANGER OF THE U.S. SENDING IN
TROOPS AGAIN.
THREE YEARS AGO, THE UNITED
STATES WAS BOTH TIRED OF THE WAR
AND HAD WORN OUT ITS WELCOME.
ALL U.S. TROOPS LEFT IN 2011,
LEAVING IRAQI SECURITY FORCES
STRUGGLING.
MA LACKEY'S BIG WORRY IS
AL-ANBAR WON'T BE CONTAINED BY
THE FIGHTING 40 MILES FROM
BAGHDAD WILL SPILL INTO THE
CAPITAL AND THE FORTIFIED GREEN
ZONE.
IRAQYS TAKE CHANCES WITH ALMOST
DAILY ATTACKS INTENSIFIED DURING
THE CAMPAIGN.
THERE ARE MORE THAN 9,000
CANDIDATES VYING FOR SEATS.
SHIITE CLERIC WHO WON THE
LARGEST BLOCK IN THE LAST VOTE
HAS WITHDRAWN FROM POLITICS BUT
STILL INSPIRES SUPPORT.
IN THE LIBERAL CULTURAL CENTER,
THOSE TRYING TO TURN THE TIED OF
RELIGIOUS SENTIMENT ARE OUT IN
FORCE.
THE CROWDS ARE A SIGN OF
RESILIENCY HERE.
SEVERAL YEARS AGO, A CAR BOMB
NEAR THIS SPOT, DOZENS WERE
KILLED, SENT A MESSAGE ANYONE
COULD BE A PART OF IT.
THERE ARE CAR BOMBS EVERY DAY,
BUT IT DOESN'T STOP PEOPLE FROM
GOING OUT.
WHEN YOU ASK WHAT THE MAIN
ISSUES ARE, SECURITY IS ONLY ONE
OF THEM.
A STUDENT IS URGING PEOPLE TO
VOTE FOR A CIVIL STATE, ONE RUN
BYLAWS AND NOT RELIGION.
HE HASN'T VOTED BEFORE BUT HE
WAS SO IMPRESSED WITH ONE OF THE
CANDIDATES HE DECIDED TO
VOLUNTEER THIS TIME.
>> WE BELIEVE IN CIVIL SOCIETY,
EQUALITY BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN
AND A GOVERNMENT THAT'S NOT
SECTARIAN.
>> Reporter: THIS CANDIDATE
LIKE MANY OF THE OTHERS
CAMPAIGNING ON THIS DAY ARE FROM
A NEW VERSION OF THE COMMUNIST
PARTY, THE COMMUNISTS WHO ARE
SECULAR HAVE LOST SUPPORT AS
IRAQ BECOMES MORE RELIGIOUSLY
CONSERVATIVE, BUT THEY BELIEVE
PEOPLE ARE TIRED OF RELIGIOUS
DIVISIONS.
THIS MAN IS AN ENGINEER WHO HAS
RUN AND LOST TWICE BEFORE.
WE HOPE THAT THE IRAQI VOTERS
WILL CHOOSE CORRECTLY THIS TIME
TO CHANGE THE EXISTING WRONG SO
WE WON'T LOSE ALL THESE BILLIONS
OF DOLLARS NOBODY SAW.
WE HOPE FOR CHANGE AND THERE
SHOULD BE CHANGE.
UNFORTUNATELY, WE DON'T HAVE THE
CULTURAL MENTALITY.
THE MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE ARE
NOT FULLY AWARE OF THE IDEA OF
ELECTION.
WE ARE STILL NEW TO DEMOCRACY.
GRRNTLE.
>> Reporter: BEINGS WERE SOLD
ON THE STREET FOR 25 YEARS AND
HE BELIEVES THE MOST IMPORTANT
ISSUE IS CUTTING CORRUPTION AND
PUTTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK.
HE HASN'T DECIDED YET WHO TO
VOTE FOR.
HE THINKS IT WILL BE FOR THE
STATE OF LAW COALITION OR THE
COMMUNISTS.
>> THE ECONOMIC ISSUES ARE
CASTING THEIR SHADOWS ON THE
SECURITY ISSUES IN THIS COUNTRY.
THE GOVERNMENT NEEDS TO RE-THINK
ECONOMIC PROJECTS TO DEVELOP THE
COUNTRY.
THEY ARE PARALLEL.
>> Reporter: ON THE STREET OF
CULTURAL LEARNING, YOU CAN SEE
IRAQ'S LOST POTENTIAL.
THIS BOY IS 8 YEARS OLD.
HE LIVES IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD BUT
HE AND HIS BROTHER WHO IS 7
DON'T GO TO SCHOOL.
THEY SELL CHEWING GUM HERE
INSTEAD.
THEIR FATHER IS A LABORER.
TWO OF THEIR SISTERS WERE KILLED
IN A BOMBING.
HE TELLS ME HE WOULD LIKE TO GO
TO SCHOOL BUT THE FAMILY DOESN'T
HAVE THE MONEY TO OBTAIN THE
GOVERNMENT RECORDS NEEDED TO
ENROLL HIM.
IT'S NOT A BRIGHT FUTURE FOR
THESE BOYS.
IRAQ IS A COUNTRY STILL
REINVENTING ITSELF ONE ELECTION
AT A TIME.
>> Ifill: 90% OF AMERICAN ADULTS
HAVE CELL PHONES, MOST OF THEM
CONTAINING TROVES OF PERSONAL
DATA, INCLUDING PHOTOS, CONTACTS
AND CORRESPONDENCE.
THE SUPREME COURT HEARD
ARGUMENTS TODAY IN TWO CASES
THAT CHALLENGE WHETHER ALL THAT
INFORMATION SHOULD BE FAIR GAME
FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT WHEN A
SUSPECT IS PLACED UNDER ARREST.
MARCIA COYLE OF THE NATIONAL LAW
JOURNAL WAS IN THE COURTROOM
THIS MORNING AND IS BACK WITH US
TONIGHT.
THIS WEEK WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
CELL PHONE DATA.
THE SUPREME COURT IS SUDDENLY
GETTING VERY MODERN.
HOW DID THIS CASE GET TO THE
COURT?
>> A NEW WORLD AS ONE OF THE
JUSTICES SAID TODAY.
THIS INVOLVED TWO CASES, TWO
SEPARATE ARGUMENTS FOR AN HOUR
EACH.
THE ONE CASE WAS A STATE
PROSECUTION.
POLICE STOPPED A MAN DRIVING
BECAUSE HIS TAGS HAD EXPIRED.
THEY FOUND CONCEALED AND LOADED
WEAPONS IN THE CAR, ARRESTED
HIM, CONFISCATED HIS
Smartphone.
THEY SEARCHED THE Smartphone
AND FOUND VIDEO AND PHOTO THAT
LINKED HIM TO A GANG-RELATED
ATTEMPTED MURDER.
THE EVIDENCE WAS USED TO CONVICT
HIM.
THE SECOND CASE WAS A FEDERAL
PROSECUTION, A SUSPECTED DRUG
DEALER WAS ARRESTED.
HIS FLIP PHONE WAS SEARCHED BY
POLICE.
THEY LOOKED AT THE CALL LOG ON
THE FLIP PHONE, FOUND A PHONE
NUMBER THEY USED TO FIND AN
ADDRESS OF THE MAN'S HOUSE,
LATER WENT AND SEARCHED THE
HOUSE WITH A WARRANT AND FOUND
DRUGS.
THAT EVIDENCE WAS USED TO
CONVICT HIM.
>> Ifill: THEY DIDN'T HAVE A
WARRANT TO SEARCH THE PHONES.
>> EXACTLY.
AND COMMON TO BOTH THESE CASES
IS SORT OF AN EXCEPTION TO WHAT
GENERALLY MAKES POLICE SEARCHES
REASONABLE UNDER THE FOURTH
AMENDMENT, A WARRANT, AND THAT'S
AN EXCEPTION THAT'S KNOWN AS
SEARCH INCIDENT TO AN ARREST.
POLICE CAN SEARCH YOU AFTER THEY
ARREST YOU FOR TWO
JUSTIFICATIONS -- ONE, AN
OFFICER'S SAFETY AND, TWO, TO
PREVENT DESTRUCTION OF EVIDENCE.
THAT'S WHAT WAS FOCUSED ON TODAY
DURING THE ARGUMENTS.
DID THE OFFICERS HAVE THOSE
JUSTIFICATIONS?
THE LAWYERS FOR THE CONVICTED
CRIMINALS CAN HERE SAID NO, THE
POLICE SEIZED THE PHONE, SECURED
THEM, GET A WARRANT.
GET A THIRD-PARTY MAGISTRATE TO
SAY WHAT THEY CAN REALLY LOOK AT
ON THE PHONE.
THE GOVERNMENT ARGUED, NO, NO,
THIS IS AN OFFICER IN THE FIELD.
CELL PHONES TODAY ARE VERY
SOPHISTICATED.
THEY CAN BE USED TO TRIGGER
BOMBS, TO SEND MESSAGES TO
CRIMINAL CONFEDERATES TO EITHER
RUN OR COME HELP THE PERSON
ARRESTED.
>> Ifill: SO HAVING A CELL
PHONE IS NOT THE SAME AS A
WALLET.
A WALLET THEY COULD REASONABLY
SEARCH AND NO ONE COULD SAY
ANYTHING BECAUSE IT'S ON YOUR
PERSON, BUT A CELL PHONE IS
DIFFERENT?
>> THE QUESTION IS HOW DIFFERENT
IS IT, REALLY.
THE JUSTICES GAVE AN EXAMPLE,
YOU HAVE A BILLFOLD IN YOUR
POCKET AND IT CONTAINS FIVE
PHOTOS.
JUSTICE ALITO SAID POLICE CAN
LOOK AT THOSE FIVE PHOTOS AFTER
THEY ARREST YOU, WHY CAN'T THEY
LOOK AT THE CELL PHONE THAT HAS
A THOUSAND OF PHOTOS?
WHAT'S DIFFERENT?
THAT DREW THEM INTO THE
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHY IT'S
DIFFERENT.
SOME PHOTOGRAPHS ON CELL PHONES
HAVE MORE INFORMATION THAN JUST
THE IMAGE IN THE PHOTOGRAPH.
JUSTICE CAIGEN POINTED OUT,
ALSO, THAT CELL PHONES TODAY,
PEOPLE HAVE THEIR ENTIRE LIVES
ON THEIR CELL PHONES.
WHERE DO YOU DRAW A LINE ON WHAT
THE POLICE CAN LOOK AT IF THEY
CAN SEARCH THE CELL PHONES?
>
>> Ifill: SOUNDS LIKE THE
JUSTICES WERE GOING BACK AND
FORTH ABOUT WHAT THEY WERE
SUPPOSED TO BE JUDGING THIS ON.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
MAYBE TWO OR THREE SEEMED TO
THINK, YOU KNOW, WHY NOT GET A
WARRANT?
THESE PHONES WERE SEARCHED AT
THE POLICE STATION.
THERE WAS TIME TO GET A WARRANT.
BUT, AGAIN, THE GOVERNMENT
LAWYERS COME BACK AND SAID,
LOOK, YOU KNOW, YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT OFFICERS WHO ARE, YOU
KNOW, STANDING OUT ON A STREET
AND THEY HAVE ARRESTED SOMEBODY.
THEY HAVE TO MAKE QUICK
DECISIONS.
ALSO, THE TECHNOLOGY, THE LAWYER
FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
SAID THE F.B.I. IS FINDING AN
INCREASING PROBLEM WITH
ENCRYPTION ON CELL PHONES.
THERE ARE BUTTONS WHERE THE CELL
PHONE -- ALL THE INFORMATION CAN
BE ENCRYPTED AND IT'S TAKING
THEIR LABS MONTHS IF EVER TO
BREAK THROUGH TO THE ENCRYPTION.
SO THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO GET
INTO THOSE CELL PHONES AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE.
>> Ifill: WHERE DOES A
CONSERVATIVE JUSTICE LIKE
JUSTICE SCALIA COME DOWN ON
THIS.
>> FOR HIM, THIS MAY BE HARD.
HE OFTEN, IN CRIMINAL CASES, YOU
KNOW, HE GOES WITH THE TEXT OF
THE AMENDMENT, THAT SOMETIMES
PUTS HIM ON THE SIDE OF THE
CRIMINAL DEFENDANT.
>> Ifill: RIGHT.
SEEMED TO ME THEY WERE
STRUGGLING TODAY TO FIND A
MIDDLE GROUND THAT WOULD ALLOW
POLICE TO BE SAFE, TO PRESERVE
EVIDENCE AND, YET, AT THE SAME
TIME, NOT OPEN YOUR CELL PHONE
TO EVERYTHING IN YOUR LIFE.
>> Ifill: SO ESTABLISH A LINE
OF REASONABLE SUSPICION.
WHEN IT'S REASONABLE TO LOOK.
>> WELL, THAT'S WHEN YOU GET A
WARRANT.
BUT I THINK THAT HAS MORE TO DO
WITH GOING BEYOND THOSE TWO
JUSTIFICATIONS FOR THE SEARCH
INCIDENT TO YOUR ARREST.
THE GOVERNMENT SUGGESTED LET US
SEARCH FOR EVIDENCE OF THE CRIME
OF THE ARREST, THAT TAKES YOU A
LITTLE FARTHER INTO THE CELL
PHONE ITSELF.
I THINK IT'S A REAL STRUGGLE FOR
THEM AND THEY WANT, USUALLY, TO
HAVE A BRIGHT LINE SO THAT THE
POLICE KNOW WHAT THEY CAN DO AND
WHAT THEY CAN'T DO, AND THERE
WAS NO EVIDENCE OF A BRIGHT LINE
TODAY.
>> Ifill: NO BRIGHT LINES
MARSHA COYLE, THANK YOU.
TODAY.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY TONIGHT
TO EGYPT, WHERE THE REMAINS OF
SOME 50 ROYAL MUMMIES WERE
DISCOVERED IN A HUGE TOMB IN THE
VALLEY OF THE KINGS, THE
COUNTRY'S ANTIQUITIES MINISTER
SAID YESTERDAY.
THE RELICS ARE THOUGHT TO DATE
BACK TO MORE THAN 1,500 YEARS
BEFORE CHRIST.
THAT FIND HAS DRAWN NEW
ATTENTION TO EGYPT'S RICH, BUT
INCREASINGLY THREATENED,
ARCHAEOLOGICAL HERITAGE, AND A
NEW APPROACH TO SAVING IT.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY,
PART OF HIS SERIES, "CULTURE AT
RISK".
>> THE 4,000 YEAR OLD TEMPLES OF
KARNAK IN EGYPT ARE NOW BEING
RESTORED.
THESE FIRST PICTURES SHOW THEAMT
BY THE EGYPTIAN AUTHORITIES.
>> Brown: FOR DECADES EGYPTIAN
AND INTERNATIONAL ARCHEOLOGISTS
HAVE WORKED TO CAREFULLY
EXCAVATE AND PRESERVE SOME OF
THE WORLD'S MOST TREASURED
HISTORICAL SITES AND OBJECTS.
THE ANCIENT PYRAMIDS OF GIZA.
THE VALLEY OF THE KINGS.
THE TOMB OF KING TUT.
HERS, THOUSANDS OF YEARS
OLD, MANY YET TO BE UNEARTHED.
IN THE AFTERMATH OF EGYPT'S
JANUARY 25TH, 2011 REVOLUTION,
WHICH THREW OUT LONGTIME LEADER
HOSNI MUBARAK.
COMPETING INTERESTS HAVE
JOCKEYED FOR POLITICAL CONTROL,
THERE'S A SECURITY VACUUM IN
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, TOURISTS
HAVE LARGELY STAYED AWAY.
AND EGYPT'S ANTIQUITIES HAVE
BEEN INCREASINGLY UNDER THREAT
FROM  LOOTING, VANDALISM,
ILLEGAL DEVELOPMENT AND
VIOLENCE.
JUST IN JANUARY, A CAR BOMB
TARGETING CAIRO'S SECURITY
DIRECTORATE DID MAJOR DAMAGE TO
THE MUSEUM OF ISLAMIC ARTS
ACROSS THE STREET.
AND LAST SUMMER, THIEVES BROKE
INTO THE MALAWI NATIONAL MUSEUM,
IN THE UPPER EGYPTIAN CITY OF
MINYA, BURNING OR DESTROYING
NEARLY 50 ARTIFACTS AND TAKING
WITH THEM MORE THAN A THOUSAND
OBJECTS.
>> THE MORE CHAOTIC THE
POLITICAL SITUATION APPEARS AND
THE MORE THE SECURITY IS AFRAID,
THE MORE THE LOOTING WILL
CONTINUE.
>> Brown: ARCHEOLOGIST MONICA
HANNA WAS AT THAT SITE AND
OTHERS TO DOCUMENT THE DAMAGE.
SHE'S THE FOUNDER OF AN
ORGANIZATION CALLED "HERITAGE
TASK FORCE."
AND SHE SPOKE WITH US RECENTLY
DURING A VISIT TO THE U.S.
>> THE PROBLEM IS VERY SERIOUS.
THE AMOUNT OF SITES THAT ARE
BEING LOOTED, THE AMOUNT OF
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES THAT ARE
BEING DESTROYED BECAUSE OF THE
LOOTING, IS VERY HIGH.
AND THE AMOUNT OF OBJECTS
LEAVING THEIR ARCHAEOLOGICAL
CONTEXT, LOSING THEIR PROVENANCE
AND THEIR HISTORY FOREVER AND
GOING ON THE ANTIQUITIES MARKET
IS VERY HIGH.
WE HAVE TWO TYPES OF LOOTERS.
THEY HAVE ACCESS TO THE
TECHNOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE.
THEY COME TO THE SITES WITH FOUR
WHEEL DRIVES WITH VERY
TECHNOLOGICAL WEAPONS COMING
FROM LIBYA SO OFTEN THE GUARDS
CANNOT USE THEM IN FRONT OF THEM
AND THEY KNOW WHERE TO EXACTLY
TO EXCAVATE.
THE OTHER PEOPLE ARE THE REGULAR
VILLAGERS.
USUALLY YOUNG YOUTH AND CHILDREN
ARE SENT BY A LOCAL PERSON TO
FIND OBJECTS AND THEY GIVE THEM
MONEY IN TURN OF THESE OBJECTS.
>> Brown: IN FEBRUARY, EGYPTIAN
TOURISM POLICE ANNOUNCED THEY'D
BROKEN UP A MAJOR SMUGGLING
RING, RECOVERING THOUSANDS OF
STOLEN OBJECTS.
BUT IT REMAINS A PERVASIVE
PROBLEM.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE
APPREHENDED TENS OF PEOPLE WITH
DIGGING EQUIPMENT.
MAYBE, ON A DAILY BASIS, THERE
ARE AT LEAST SEVEN TO TEN CASES
OF ILLICIT EXCAVATION.
>> Brown: LAST MONTH EGYPT'S
ANTIQUITIES MINISTER ASKED THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION TO IMPOSE
EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS ON THE
IMPORTATION OF ANCIENT
ARTIFACTS.
THOSE WOULD ALLOW U.S. CUSTOMS
OFFICIALS TO SEIZE OBJECTS THAT
LACK OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION.
THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SAYS
IT'S OPEN TO THE IDEA, BUT THE
FORMAL REQUEST WILL TAKE TIME TO
SUBMIT AND APPROVE.
BUT HANNA SAYS A GLOBAL EFFORT
IS NEEDED.
>> I DON'T THINK THE REST OF THE
WORLD IS DOING ENOUGH.
AND, AGAIN, WE NEED TO TARGET
OLDER MARKETS BECAUSE IF WE STOP
THE MARKET IN THE U.S., THE
MARKET WILL SHIFT TO DUBAI, THE
MARKET WILL SHIFT TO EASTERN
EUROPE OR WESTERN EUROPE.
IT HAS TO BE AN INTERNATIONAL
EFFORT.
>> Brown: IN THE MEANTIME, SHE'S
USING A RELATIVELY NEW TOOL:
SOCIAL MEDIA, USING TWITTER, FOR
EXAMPLE, TO SOUND THE ALARM AND.
ON FACEBOOK, SHE'S POSTED
HUNDREDS OF PHOTOS OF ILLEGALLY
EXCAVATED SITES, MANY WITH HUMAN
REMAINS SCATTERED ABOUT.
>> THE FASTEST THING TO REPORT A
HERITAGE PROBLEM, RATHER THAN
GOING TO SPEAK TO THE MEDIA, IS
JUST TWEETING OR WRITING A POST
ON FACEBOOK WHERE JOURNALISTS
HAVE ACCESS TO, PEOPLE CAN READ,
PEOPLE CAN GET INFORMED.
THE SPREADING OF THE AWARENESS
CREATES A PRESSURE ON THE
DIFFERENT GOVERNMENTAL BODIES TO
TAKE ACTIONS AND TO TAKE
CONCRETE STEPS.
>> Brown: HOW EASY IS IT TO GO
INTO THESE SITES?
ARE YOU INVITED IN?
DO YOU SOMETIMES HAVE TO SNEAK
IN?
>> IT VARIES.
SOME SITES, I GET INVITED IN BY
THE LOCAL INSPECTORS.
OF COURSE, THEY, THEY ARE
UNEMPOWERED AND THEY'RE VERY
SCARED TO SPEAK.
SO, WHAT WE DO, IS THAT WE GO,
TAKE PHOTOGRAPHS IF IT IS SAFE
ENOUGH, WE DRAW SKETCHES, AND WE
POST THEM ON FACEBOOK, WE SEND
THEM TO THE MEDIA, WE JUST
PUBLICIZE THE PROBLEM AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE.
>> Brown: THIS CAN BE DANGEROUS
WORKG
>> FOR EXAMPLE, ONE TIME I WAS
SHOT AT IN DASHUR AT THE
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE IN THE
MEMPHITE NECROPOLIS.
THE LOOTERS THERE STARTED
SHOOTING IN THE AIR WHILE I WAS
DRIVING BECAUSE THEY SAW THAT I
WAS TAKING PHOTOGRAPHS.
ANOTHER TIME IN ANOTHER SITE
CALLED ABUSIR MALAK, I WAS ALSO
ATTACKED AND THEY TRIED TO
CONFISCATE THE CAMERA.
>> Brown: SO WHY DO THIS?
WHY DID YOU START THIS WORK?
>> BECAUSE I'M EGYPTIAN AND I'VE
HAD A GOOD EDUCATION.
SO I'M A BRIDGE BETWEEN WORLDS
AND BECAUSE NO ONE ELSE WAS
DOING IT.
MOST OF THE FOREIGN
ARCHAEOLOGICAL MISSIONS ARE VERY
SCARED TO SPEAK UP ON THE
LOOTING BECAUSE THEY CAN RISK
LOSING THEIR CONCESSIONS.
THE LOCAL INSPECTORS ARE NOT
EMPOWERED ENOUGH, THEY DO NOT
HAVE THE CHANNELS TO SPEAK UP,
SO SOMEONE HAD TO VOICE OUT THE
CRIME THAT'S GOING ON.
>> Brown: FOR HER EFFORTS MONICA
HANNA WAS RECENTLY GIVEN AN
AWARD FROM THE NEW YORK-BASED
PRESERVATION GROUP: "SAVING
ANTIQUITIES FOR EVERYONE".
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE DEATH TOLL ROSE TO AT LEAST
35 AFTER TWO DAYS OF TORNADOES
ACROSS THE MIDWEST AND THE
SOUTH.
MORE ALERTS WERE OUT THIS
EVENING.
AND THE NATIONAL BASKETBALL
ASSOCIATION BANNED LOS ANGELES
CLIPPERS OWNER DONALD STERLING
FOR LIFE, FOR RACIST REMARKS,
FINED HIM $2.5 MILLION DOLLARS
AND MOVED TO STRIP HIM OF TEAM
OWNERSHIP.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, SOME SENIORS
AREN'T READY FOR A LIFE OF
LEISURE WHEN THEY FINISH
WORKING, SO THEY'RE HEADING BACK
TO SCHOOL.
NEW RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES SET
UP NEAR UNIVERSITY CAMPUSES
OFFER THE PERKS OF COLLEGE LIFE
WITHOUT THE EXAMS.
READ ABOUT THESE PROGRAMS ON OUR
HEALTH PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, THE U.S. MAKES UP
5% OF THE WORLD'S POPULATION,
BUT ACCOUNTS FOR 25% OF IT'S
PRISONERS.
WE EXAMINE WHY SO MANY AMERICANS
ARE BEHIND BARS.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE,
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.